### Git

The topic of the presentation is Git. So, what is Git?
First, the word 'git' is not an abbreviation. It's just a name that was given to it by its creator, Linus Torvalds. And Git is not GitHub. GitHub is a popular web-service for hosting IT-projects and Git is a system that controls versions of these projects.
Obviously, a project (that is essentially a collection of files) is not something immutable. We correct it and improve it, add new files to it and delete old ones. Sometimes these updates fail and in a such case it would be nice to be able to roll them back to a previous state. 
In other words it would be better not start the game again, but continue with the last save. Using Git it is very simple to switch versions. You need just not forget to make them and give a short clear description to each of them, that means to make commits.
Every time you do it Git assign to your commit an unique number and make backup of your project. The backup contains new versions of changed files and links to unchanged files. Such an approach is different from other version control systems (for example CVS, Subversion and Bazaar) which save  only the changes and not full copies of files. It allows Git to simplify and speed up the work with branches.
Therefore and because almost all operations in Git act locally and independently from server connection Git is such popular. Nowadays about seventy percent of developers use Git in their work. To start using it too you need to download it from git website and install. It is not tricky.
Packages are available for Windows, Linux and MacOS and installation process is the same as for other applications for these systems. You can also choose a suitable gui-client. But in the beginning it would be right to know how git-cli works.
In MacOS and Linux systems it is available with standard terminal, in Windows istead of console of that operation system it would better to use command shell git-bash, included in the git installation package. Then any directory on your computer you can add to version control with command 'git init'. That means that you open the terminal in the needed directory or go to it using 'cd' command and enter git-init.
A hidden folder .git will appear. All history, commits, service files, zipped versions of your files are stored here. If you type in terminal 'git status' you will see current changes of your project. That means you will see which files have been added, and which have been changed or removed since previous saving.
With the 'git add' command you add these changes to a new version of the project. The 'git add .' adds all files and the 'git add name.js' or 'git add name.txt' adds to the save point only specified files - name.js or name.txt respectively. 
After that with the command 'git commit' you can make the project version with some description. If you do not specify prefix -m and type only 'git commit' you will pass to a text editor for typing description.
The default editor is vim. You press 'i' in vim (that means insert mode), type description, press esc, then type :wq (write and quit) and commit is    made. 
To verify this you can enter command 'git log' which show you all the project history. There is an unique SHA-1 checksum for every note in there.
If you put this checksum as a parameter of 'git revert' command Git will revert your project to that point. You can load the first save, then change your mind and return the last, change your mind again and back to the first or second point, no problem. Git just take from its collection the version you need and load it into the workspace.
There are three sections in Git: Git directory, the working folder, and the staging area. Two sections are for Git. The selected files get in the staging area after instruction 'git add' and get in the git repository area after instruction 'git commit'. The third area is for you, you work in     there. You add new files to the project, edit them, then enter 'git add' command, Git indexes changes you made, then you enter 'git commit' command and Git saves the project version, or more accurate to say Git saves the project branch version.
Initially you are in the branch, named master. That means all your commits will be saved exactly in it. But you can make another branch with command 'git branch'. Then if you type 'git checkout' you will see the name of active branch is changed and now all commits that you make will be saved in new branch. 
'Git merge' command combines the specified branch with master branch. There are conflicts sometimes. That means that if you changed some file in different branches Git will add to the file both changes and may ask you to open the file and edit it manually before merging. 
After the merging you can delete unnecessary branch. Using branches allows to improve your project in different directions, that is especially useful for the collaborative development.
In this case you need a git hosting service. For example, GitHub. When you log in there you can create public repositories of your projects for free. 
You go to the repositories tab, click the 'new' button, enter the name of the repository and press 'create'. That's all. Then you can create and edit files right here on the site, which is not quite convinient. So you can clone the repository on your local machine.
And not only you. Every your teammate can press 'clone or download' button on GitHub page and copy repository address. Then you can type in the terminal 'git clone' and specify the repository address. Git will download the repository to your computer, so you can edit it in parallel with other team members. For example, someone in his own branch creates the header of the site, another makes footer and someone else makes another section.
Then everyone pushes his work to the server, using command 'git push origin',where 'origin' is the remote repository address. And then all the branches are merged to master in order to create whole site. Perhaps, after that you will want to change something else. In this case, there is no need to clone the updated repository again. You just can command 'git pull' and Git will download all updates and merge them with your local repository.
Perhaps, someone else will want to participate in your project. If he is not in the collaborators list he can press fork button and copy your repository to his account. Then he can clone it to local machine, edit it, push new version to his account and create 'pull request'. Or in other words, ask a permission from repository owner to adding changes.
You can do so too. There are many projects on GitHub to participate in. So, good luck.